.TH AUTOREADME 1 "March 2026" "AutoReadme" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
autoreadme \- Generate auxiliary files from README.md for Apache web servers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B autoreadme
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-\-create_header\fR] [\fB\-\-no-htaccess\fR] [\fB\-\-ignore\fR \fIFILE\fR...] [\fB\-\-ignore-patterns\fR \fIPATTERN\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B autoreadme
is a unified command that manages and validates README.md files in a project directory. It maintains a Markdown table of files with metadata, generates helper files for Apache web servers, and converts Markdown to HTML.
.PP
The command executes a full pipeline that:
.IP \(bu 2
Creates README.md from a template if it does not exist
.IP \(bu 2
Appends a "## Files ##" section template if README.md exists but is missing it
.IP \(bu 2
Generates a fresh file table from the directory contents
.IP \(bu 2
Merges it with existing README.md table entries (preserving manual descriptions)
.IP \(bu 2
Updates README.md with the merged table
.IP \(bu 2
Creates Apache auxiliary files (.htaccess, .contents, .info, .readme.html, .header.html)
.IP \(bu 2
Converts Markdown to HTML using b4markdown wrapper
.IP \(bu 2
Validates the README.md table against actual directory contents
.SH FILES TABLE FORMAT
The README.md file uses a Markdown table under a "## Files ##" section.
If missing, \fBautoreadme\fR creates or appends this section automatically:
.PP
.nf
| File       | 🧿 | Description                |
|------------|----|----------------------------|
| autoreadme | 🔩 | ReCreate Files             |
| b4markdown | 🔩 | markdown_py wrapper        |
| bkup       | 🔩 | Save copies to .backups/   |
.fi
.PP
Files beginning with '!' are marked as older/removed but still documented.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-v
Enable verbose output during table generation.
.TP
.B \-\-create_header
Write full header into .header.html (requires Apache IndexOptions +SuppressHTMLPreamble).
.TP
.B \-\-no-htaccess
Do not generate .htaccess file.
.TP
.B \-\-ignore \fIFILE\fR...
List of sensitive files/directories to deny access to in generated Apache files. Default: .backups .git ..netrc .netrc .ssh Downloads notfolder.jpg
.TP
.B \-\-ignore-patterns \fIPATTERN\fR...
Regex patterns of file names to deny access to. Default: *.a *.o *.so *.bak
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B MARKDOWN_CSS
Relative location of CSS file for styling HTML output. Default: /.markdown.css
.br
Configure in httpd.conf with: IndexStyleSheet "/.markdown.css"
.TP
.B MARKDOWN
Alternative markdown filter command. Default: b4markdown
.SH FILES
.TP
.B README.md
Main documentation file containing the file table under "## Files ##" section.
.TP
.B ~/.config/autoreadme/ignore_list.txt
User-specific ignore list file (overrides default ignore_list.txt).
.TP
.B ignore_list.txt
Local ignore list file.
.TP
.B .htaccess
Apache server directives generated from README.md table.
.TP
.B .contents
Alternative Apache AccessFileName with server directives.
.TP
.B .readme.html
Full README.md content converted to HTML for Apache directory listings.
.TP
.B .header.html
Project title block from README.md converted to HTML.
.TP
.B .info
File information for use with the tree command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run full pipeline with default settings:
.B autoreadme
.TP
Generate files without .htaccess:
.B autoreadme \-\-no-htaccess
.TP
Create full header in .header.html:
.B autoreadme \-\-create_header
.TP
Ignore additional files:
.B autoreadme \-\-ignore secret.txt private/
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR generate_table (1),
.BR merge_table (1),
.BR generate_files (1),
.BR generate_html (1),
.BR checkreadme (1),
.BR b4markdown (1),
.BR bkup (1)
.SH AUTHOR
AutoReadme project
