.TH B4MARKDOWN 1 "March 2026" "AutoReadme" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
b4markdown \- Markdown preprocessor with syntax highlighting and file inclusion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B b4markdown
[\fIFILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B b4markdown
is a preprocessor for Markdown that adds syntax highlighting markup and file inclusion capabilities before passing content to markdown_py.
.PP
Features:
.IP \(bu 2
Syntax highlighting with color markers (@- gray, @+ cyan, @g green, @b blue, @p purple, @y yellow, @r red, @o orange)
.IP \(bu 2
Form feed markers (@@) for page breaks
.IP \(bu 2
File inclusion with #include directive
.IP \(bu 2
Mermaid diagram support with automatic script inclusion
.IP \(bu 2
Markdown comment stripping
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B FILE
Input file to process. If not specified, reads from standard input.
.SH SYNTAX HIGHLIGHTING
Lines beginning with color markers are converted to HTML mark elements with
highlighting applied to the end of line:
.PP
.nf
@- Text in gray (to end of line)
@g Text in green (to end of line)
@@ Page break
.fi
.PP
Inline spans use braces to delimit the highlighted region.
Multiple inline highlights may appear on the same line:
.PP
.nf
@g{green text} and @b{blue text} on one line
00000000   @g{07 7E 00 00} @b{00 EC 00 00}
.fi
.PP
Inline highlights survive inside Markdown code blocks (indented or
fenced).  The preprocessor encodes them as ASCII placeholders before
.B markdown_py
runs, then restores the
.B <mark>
tags afterward.
.PP
Available colors for both line and inline forms:
.TS
l l.
@-	gray
@+	cyan
@g	green
@b	blue
@p	purple
@y	yellow
@r	red
@o	orange
.TE
.SH FILE INCLUSION
Include other files with:
.PP
.nf
#include filename.md
.fi
.SH MERMAID DIAGRAMS
Mermaid code blocks are automatically enhanced with the Mermaid.js library.
.SH OUTPUT
HTML output from markdown_py with additional markup for highlighting and diagrams.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Process a file:
.B b4markdown document.md
.TP
Process from stdin:
.B cat document.md | b4markdown
.TP
Line-level highlight (green to end of line):
.B @gThis entire line is green
.TP
Inline highlight inside a code block:
.nf
	00000000   @g{07 7E 00 00} @b{00 EC 00 00} - AA 40
.fi
.TP
Use in pipeline:
.B generate_html uses b4markdown internally
.SH DEPENDENCIES
Requires markdown_py with extra extensions for full functionality.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR generate_html (1),
.BR markdown_py (1),
.BR autoreadme (1)
.SH AUTHOR
AutoReadme project