.TH HR 1 "March 2026" "AutoReadme" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
hr \- Generate decorative horizontal rules with various styles and colors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hr
[\fB\-e\fR|\fB\-\-emoji\fR \fISEQUENCE\fR] [\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-\-color\fR] [\fB\-z\fR|\fB\-\-back\fR] [\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-fg\fR] [\fB\-b\fR|\fB\-\-bg\fR] [\fB\-n\fR|\fB\-\-no_color\fR] [\fB\-m\fR|\fB\-\-mode\fR \fIMODE\fR] [\fB\-l\fR|\fB\-\-lines\fR \fINUM\fR] [\fB\-T\fR|\fB\-\-theme\fR \fITHEME\fR] [\fB\-\-list-themes\fR] [\fB\-\-tty\fR] [\fB\-t\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fITEXT\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hr
generates decorative horizontal rules (dividers) for console output. It supports various character modes including ASCII, emojis, box drawing characters, and playing cards. Rules can be colored, themed, and include centered text.
.PP
The tool automatically detects terminal width and adjusts the rule accordingly. When output is not to a terminal, colors are disabled by default.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-emoji \fISEQUENCE\fR
Use emoji sequence (comma-separated). Default: 🌀
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-color
Enable random ANSI foreground colors
.TP
.B \-z, \-\-back
Enable random ANSI background colors
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-fg
Enable foreground color (uses default yellow)
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-bg
Enable background color (uses default green)
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-no_color
Disable all colors
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-mode \fIMODE\fR
Character mode: ascii (default), emoji, box, card
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-lines \fINUM\fR
Number of horizontal rule lines to draw. Default: 1
.TP
.B \-T, \-\-theme \fITHEME\fR
Use a named emoji theme (overrides -e). Available themes: mythical, flowers, succulents, veggies, fruits, trees, cosmic, birds, catsdogs, food, weather, hearts, tools, faces, random
.TP
.B \-\-list-themes
Display all available theme names and exit
.TP
.B \-\-tty
Force terminal mode even when output is not to a tty
.TP
.B \-t
Run sample test showing various hr styles
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help message and exit
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B HR
Set default style. Supported values:
.RS
.IP eb 4
Blue square emoji (🟦)
.IP eg 4
Green square emoji (🟩)
.IP er 4
Red square emoji (🟥)
.IP ey 4
Yellow square emoji (🟨)
.IP et 4
Train emoji (🚂)
.IP ee 4
Eyes emoji (👀)
.IP C 4
Cyan background
.IP M,P 4
Magenta background
.IP B 4
Blue background
.IP Y 4
Yellow background
.IP R 4
Red background
.IP G 4
Green background (default)
.RE
.PP
Command-line arguments override the
.B HR
variable.
.SH CHARACTER MODES
.TP
.B ascii
Alternating / and \\ characters (default)
.TP
.B emoji
Random emojis from specified sequence
.TP
.B box
Unicode box drawing characters
.TP
.B card
Playing card symbols
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Basic horizontal rule:
.B hr
.TP
Rule with centered text:
.B hr "Section Header"
.TP
Emoji rule with colors:
.B hr \-e "🌈,🌊,✨" \-c
.TP
Box drawing characters:
.B hr \-m box \-l 2
.TP
Using a theme:
.B hr \-\-theme flowers
.TP
Environment variable usage:
.B HR=et hr
.SH THEMES
Available emoji themes:
.TP
.B mythical
🧜‍♀️,🧝‍♂️,🧚,🧞‍♂️,🧛‍♀️,🧙‍♀️
.TP
.B flowers
🌸,🌼,🌹,🌷,💐,🌺
.TP
.B succulents
🌵,🪴,🌱,🌿,🍀,🪻
.TP
.B veggies
🥕,🌽,🥬,🧄,🧅,🥒,🥦,🍅,🍆
.TP
.B fruits
🍓,🍉,🍌,🍍,🍒,🍇,🍑
.TP
.B trees
🌳,🌲,🌴,🪵,🍃,🍂
.TP
.B cosmic
🌌,🌠,⭐,✨,🔮,🪐
.TP
.B birds
🦉,🦅,🕊️,🦜,🐦,🦢,🐧
.TP
.B catsdogs
🐱,🐶,🐾,😺,😸,😻
.TP
.B food
🍕,🍔,🌮,🍣,🍩,🍪
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR autoreadme (1),
.BR echo (1),
.BR printf (1)
.SH AUTHOR
AutoReadme project